Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman It's Ryan mounting show
number four 15. In this
episode, Scott talks with Steven
Edward Continuous integration and easy
deployment possible. Yeah, In the
cloud. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. I'm talking
with Steven, Edward, how are
you? Hey, how's it going,
Scott? I'm pretty good. I'm
learning a lot of stuff
from exploring your GitHub repository
here. You are all about
continuous integration. Are you now?
I love continuous integration and
the thing is, people don't
realize how easy it is.
Basically, if you have to
do something twice, it should
be automated, right? Absolutely. You
know, this, this validation of
like, Hey, is something working
or not? You should just
know, like right at Marino,
right at check-in I noticed
particularly your resume. I went
up and looked at your
resume. I know it's always
weird to start a show
when you're talking to a
guest where like I looked
at your resume, but what
what's kind of Rocky and
cool about your resume is
that you use this thing
called Jason resume. You basically
took adjacent schema and you
compile your resume into HTML
or PDF or whatever. And
this is something built in
node, right? Yeah. So I
was actually it's proving hacker
news. And I saw like
someone posted like this little
open source project for building
a resume to Jason. And
it's a, it's powered by
node. And essentially it's just
a command line interface. And
you just run this, this
package that they've included in
this interface, and it'll just
scan through this Jaison schema
and compile it into whatever
format you want. And it
can be HTML. It could
be marked out. It could
be PDF. And the cool
part is you can just
take that and, you know,
just source control it and
then hook it up to
continuous integration and deploy, right?
Like every time you change
a resume. So it's pretty
clever actually. And this is,
so this is a node.
So I would say NPM
node, package manager, install, resume
dash CLI CLI command line
interface. Yeah. You want to
make sure we do it
globally so you can use
it anywhere. Okay. And then,
you know, you make your
Jason file and got all
out all this up on
your GitHub. But, but what
I thought was cool about
it was that you did
some stuff in Azure that,
you know, like after, after
the fact I realized this
is pretty obvious, but it
was really clean. You basically
got Azure websites to compile
this for you. Yep, Exactly.
So the cool part about
it is that in a
lot of people don't realize
the Azure websites, like the
name is kind of slowly,
it's not just websites. It's
like, it's really like an
app engine, right? So you
can take this thing and
you could say, Hey, can
you go through the steps
I'm going to define for
you when you check in
and the steps could be
anything. And in this case,
we know the steps that
we need to do to
build our resume. We know
that we need to, you
know, make sure the schema
is correct. We need to
run a certain command that
will come, that will compile
it. And we need to
output it to a static
webpage. So what we'll do
is we'll just, I'll put
it to like a static
index, HTML, put it in
the right spot on the
Azure website. And then, so
we know we do a
check in, it builds that
and you end XHTML. So
when you do it get
pushed, you should be able
to see the change happen
on your website when you
refresh. So you made an
Azure website, you're using again,
the, what they call the
X plat or cross-platform CLI.
And so that, that cross-platform
CLI is actually pretty awesome
because you can run it
from anywhere like it, literally,
if node runs on the
thing, you can run it
on a raspberry PI. Like
that's how, like, that's how
simple it is. Yeah. If
you can, I did not
know that. I assume you
know that because you try
that try that It's actually
kinda cool, you know, as
long, and you know, I
don't think the actual CLI
has any native components to
it, which is pretty nice.
So yeah, you can run
it from Unix. You can
run from red hat or
whatever you're using. So that's
pretty nice. So that one
of the things where this
goes beyond just regular put
a note app up into
Azure was that you started
digging into what we call
kudu, right. Which is the
deployment system behind Azure website.
Yeah. It's actually behind mobile
services too. So this thing
could do is like this
mechanism that really just follows
either generates instructions or you
takes your instructions that you
want. And that's based on
a script and a munch
on the steps. And then
after it's done with that,
it'll move your, your stuff
from a certain area like
directory on your website to
the deployment directory, the site,
the directory that's actually served
up by IIS serving the
web service. So those steps
are defined by scripts. So
you could really talk to
do anything or it can,
Azure websites will actually sniff
and see, Oh, are you
using Ruby? Or are you
using Python? That will actually
just make one for you.
If you don't know what
you want. And Azure websites
has a, what's it called
a Cygwin installed. So you
can use shell scripts to
run, but you used a
command. You did a real,
real basic. You basically have
like a effectively a batch
file that runs. Yup. You
could do a batch file.
You could do a batch
file. Like you mentioned, you
could also do a JavaScript
of node since nodes installed
on all the boxes already.
So you could, the command
could just be node, deploy
dot JS instead of if
you prefer to use JavaScript.
And then, which is a
little nicer than batch, but
for this case, it was
actually really easy. So the
example that, that I, that
I took out was essentially
the Azure CLI will actually
generate a kind of like
this script for you. So
you could say like, Hey,
Azure, CLI can you just
make me a script for
Python? Or can you make
me a strip for node?
Or can you just make
me a script for static
website? You make that script.
And then from there you
can just kind of start
playing with it. And one
of the easiest or most
interesting ways to play with
it is by just adding
tests in there. So say
you got a unit test
framework. You could just, you
know, say, well, here are
the commands to run the
test and just do it.
And then it'll just deploy.
So when you say Azure
site deployment script, it spits
out a script. You can
get the default script that
they'll give you. Right. But
you said dash dash basic.
Yeah. So I did dash
desk basic for, I'm pretty
sure for resume for, so
for the resume, it's just
outputting a static index, HTML,
right? With all my resume
information, all the, all the
nice formatting, all the things
that I need is there,
but there's nothing dynamic about
it. You look at my
resume, it's not going to
change based on who you
are or whatever. So there's
no server for that. But
if you were to do
like node, you would say,
Hey, well I want dash
node because that's what I'm
making a note, a website,
and it'll just generate the
default deployment for node. And
what I really like about
it is that it's super
obvious where you should, where
you should change. Right. You
should say, well, here's where
it's going to deploy. So
maybe I want to run
some validation before that. And
you just do the commands
that you want. Scott, you're
familiar with like Travis CIS,
Right? Yeah. I have used,
I used app purveyor for
most of my stuff, because
most of my stuff's in.net,
but Travis, CIA has kind
of a continuous integration service
in the cloud. Yep, Exactly.
It's the same thing. Really.
It's just, it's really focused
for Linux development. So, but
it's the same idea where
these guys will just take,
give you a little script
and says, okay, well, here's
what we're going to run.
Tell us how to run
if you're doing node, for
example, it as well. Here's
the things, the two, three
things are required. Like the
command that you need to
run so that we can
actually run your, you run
your build. And a lot
of the things that is
builds like linting, or minifying,
or, or even running, like
test with your unit test
framework of choice. When do
you think that you should
move from having in this
case, Azure deployment scripts doing
your build, which is what
you're doing here in the
resume example to an actual,
proper continuous integration server where
the build happens elsewhere. And
then the deployment happens into
Azure. Cause I think with
these get deployed systems, whether
it be at Heroku or
whether it be at Azure,
there's a little bit of
confusion about responsibility sometimes. Yep.
And people, they move from
a basic website with a
commit, some code into Azure
with get, and then they
get frustrated that it's not
doing all the build right
there. And you have to
ask yourself, when is it
the website's responsibility to build
itself in production versus having
a continuous integration server elsewhere?
Did that work well? So,
you know, The way things
are set up right now,
I don't see a reason
why he can't either use
two different, two different ones.
Like for example, you can
take the same repository and
say, well, I have my
dev branch or I have
my, you know, predeployment branch
or whatever, and point those
to different web instances. And
they can be called websites,
but really their compute instances
in the cloud, they don't
necessarily have to be responsible
for hosting or production. But
what they can do is
they can still run that
continuous integration build and run
that validation. And afterwards there's
nothing stopping you from saying,
okay, well, we created, we
did that now let's go
ahead and deploy that to
the production site. So I
think the point that it
would make sense is where
it doesn't really make much
sense to have your production
server be building your stuff.
You can get away with
it. But once you start
to hit, you know, a
scalable amount of traffic to
where that compute takes away
from your servicing ability, it's
just obvious at that point,
you're like, well, there's two
things you could either make,
stand up your own server,
which is kind of a
pain. You could also use
one of these services just
to make sure that it's
not meant for production Up
on your GitHub. You've got
a repository called Azure dev
ops labs, and you basically
have four labs up there
breaking up four different scenarios.
I thought it would be
cool to go over those.
Yeah. So if you know,
what's hilarious about this is
that, you know, I write
everything on get hub just
because, but this was really
for just the internal, the
internal Ted team, like, and
within Microsoft, I was giving
a presentation, Ted Ted is
the technology engagement, you know,
it's so funny. We always
throw these, these acronyms With
Ted is that you work
for them. I know that
they do global evangelism with
like large scale companies, but
you know, you always forget
the acronym, but you're in
the Bay area, right? Yeah.
I'm in the Bay area
and I'm actually on the
developer experience team. And so
they asked me, Hey, you
know, Steven, can you give
a talk on Azure dev
ops and from, you know,
from a perspective that I
would from, you know, from,
you know, since I'm in
the Bay and I'm like,
Oh, well, that's great. So
I'll go ahead and, and,
you know, write this thing
up and I'll just go
and put and get hub
anyways, just in case I
want to reuse it or
whatever. And I guess someone
else found it. It was
never really intended to, to,
to, you know, for, it
was for public audiences, but
I never, Hey man, it's
got a URL it's public
right there. Right. It's got,
it has stars on good
hubs. I get up there
for, I will call you
and we will do a
show about it because I
found it to be very
useful. I mean, it may
be rough, but it's useful
here because I learned from
the resume, how to do
real, you know, real basic
build. But here you're all
like, let's start with the,
I as the, as, as
the infrastructure, as a service,
you're doing some automation with
X Platt making virtual machines.
Yup, exactly. So, you know,
what's cool. Is that, so
like I mentioned before, there's
a cross platform steel line.
So what is, what is
that? It's just basically a
command line interface that you
can control your, your cloud
resources, things like your Azure
apps. So like your websites,
platform services, as well as
infrastructure things like virtual machines.
So this lab takes us
through like, Hey, well, how
do you create these virtual
machines just through your COI?
And then not only just
using the command line interface
because that's not interesting. The
interesting part is, well, how
do I define my service
in code? Why would you
want to do this? Well,
the reason why you want
to define your service that
you'd like to do that
is because you can actually
take this code and source
control that say that you
have a team of three
people and they want to
stand up their own instance
of the service for their
own development purposes. Well, you
can take a configuration file.
You could say, well, John's
instance is going to be
these three machines and it's
going to use this network,
but you can configure that,
but the same architecture, the
infrastructure needed for that service
can just be coded away.
And then you can just
save that and you can
change it as you need,
if things change or you
say that you wonder, Hey,
well, why don't we, why
do we only use three
virtual machines for, for an
instance of the service and
not for like we used
to, well, you just go
back through your, your, your
checking history and you can
see why someone changed something.
So as your service, the
shape of your service infrastructure
changes, you literally have a
history of that. So it's
super powerful. And I think
that's the biggest gain. And
what you'll see this walkthrough
do is actually do something
interesting. And I'll actually use
JavaScript and node to do
your, your programming for the
infrastructure and traditional you'll usually
see batch script or batch
script for this. So I
think, I thought that was
really cool. There's actually this
cool library called Azure scripty,
and it's on red on
NPM. And it just is
fantastic on parsing the command
line arguments in and out.
And it makes it super
easy to be like, well,
the first argument is going
to be virtual machine. So
what are the virtual machine
names? You know, things like
that. I think that was
made by Glen block who
used to work here For
us sunblock made it. And
I was like, yeah. And
then you can, you can
take that to the next
level with something like Azure
resource manager. And I guess
you can switch back and
forth with the command line.
You can say Azure config,
you can go mode arm,
which is the resource manager
kind of declarative way. And
then is it mode at
ASM, which is more of
the proceeds, It's the smarter
procedure way. And I don't
think the resource managers gone
out publicly. How's that? Yeah,
No, it's a, I'm looking
at the documentation right here
using the Azure cross-platform command
line interface. Yep. It's a
real similar kind of idea
where you've got a Jason
file that expresses, you know,
here's what a, you know,
I don't know, a Steven
app looks like, and it's
got two web servers in
it and a Mongo DB
and a Reddis and it's
basically a declarative expression of
what your resource looks like,
and it can make that
in chunks. So you can
automate pretty significant deployments that
way. Oh. And then it'll
make a, you know, it,
that declarative way. It's really
cool in my opinion, because
it kind of, it kind
of, doesn't just force you
to do this. Oh. You
know, and now I want
you to check to see
if this is here. It,
you know, it's a little
higher level, which So I
can do automation with, with
scripting. I can do kind
of declarative automation, but what
is chef and why would
I want to do something
like that? That seems more
sophisticated. So chef is definitely
more sophisticated. So I was
asked, Hey, Steven, can you
do a talk about chef
as well? And I was
like, Oh man, you know,
I think I've, I've, I've
only seen this thing twice.
I actually decided to play
around with it. And so
the way it works is
actually kind of neat is
that chef offers is completely
open source. You can run
their chef server if you
want, and you can just
take it. You don't even
have to pay him a
dime, but you can. The
easiest thing to do as
well, go on the chef
website and create this chef
server, which basically is on
their cloud and just runs
this little instance that manages
other servers. And really it
came out and real, super
popular in Linux development. And
so chef each stuff, each
instance in a chef deployment
has its own age. And
the cool part about this
walkthrough is that it kind
of shows you, it kind
of highlights the fact that
when you make virtual machines
on Azure, you can just
check a box that says,
Hey, I want, I want
chef to manage this machine.
And what you do is
you just pass the special,
a particular file. And I
actually forgot the exact name
of it, But these are
VM extensions, right? This is
a way of saying that
I'm going to make a
virtual machine. And when it
comes up, I already want
chef on the thing I
want it prepped. Yep, exactly.
And that's why, and that's
what you're saying. So the
cool part about it is
after you, after you actually
created that virtual machine, go
back to your chef website
or your chef app, the,
the one that runs on
chef.com or that you run
personally, and you'll see it
pop up as a chef
managed instance, which is really
cool. So then that allows
you to do a variety
of things like, Hey, you
want these particular, this particular
server installed. If you want
Mongo DB installed on these
machines, or if you want
whatever, like it will just
do it for you. So
it makes it, it makes
life easier. It's all Ruby
based, which was, which is
kind of interesting as well,
but it's super popular and
the open source community for
just as management And you
can, it's kind of, they
take the, the, the metaphor
of chef, like really far.
It was like, the thing
was slugging. The chef for
Azure is knife. And you
want to make something, you
make a cookbook, you know,
these cookbook recipe. Yeah. It's
pretty cool. Like the metaphor
works though, but you can
end up with basically a
here's how I set up
my machine file, set up
a windows package, use this
cookbook, run this batch file,
set up this PowerShell script
and then start this service.
Yep. And then another a
w w I have a
thing on Azure, Friday about
octopus deploy, which is kind
of a more windows Z
more dot neti deployment system.
That's also can be set
up as a VM extension
and these VM extensions, basically,
like I said, when the
VM starts up, it has
the extension already. And that's
your hook into, you know,
what they call desired state
configuration, right? Like I want
this set up this way
in that state. That's interesting.
And this octopus deploy, is
that a, was that controlled
by central server? Just octopuses
and tentacles, same kind of
thing. Yeah. So you've got
a lot of really cool
options. I think the point
is, and you'd probably agree
that you should probably graduate
from a batch file pretty
fast. Yes. That should not
be your primary, Primary way
of deploying. I agree. Okay.
Now I like, I like
websites more. I would have
to say than virtual machines.
I don't like to maintain
virtual machines and keep them
alive. Absolutely. I prefer to
do continuous delivery using Azure
websites. I, I, you know,
I, to this day, I
still like really, really push
and hope that the team
like says, Hey, you know
what? It'd be better if
we call this something else.
Because people, customers always talk
to it's like, well, it's
just the rental websites. Right.
And it's like, no, it
does so many more things.
It's literally just a compute
instance. It's what, what used
to be, I think they're
falling out of favor, falling
into favor out and for,
in place a web, what
was it called? Web liberals.
Yeah. Well, there's the show
there. I, the way I
like I look at it
is there's an actually I
have a slide on this
somewhere. Virtual machines are like
owning your own car. You
have to maintain it. You
have to deal with it.
And websites are like, you
know, renting a car where
you can trash it, but
you can return the car.
And then software as a
service is like a limo
get driven around and just
get driven around and do
whatever you want to do.
Yeah. That's pretty good comparisons.
Pretty accurate. So what does
Atlassian and how does that
relate to continuous delivery in
Azure websites? The awesome thing
about this. When I wrote
this, I was like, let
me pick something that people
don't know that they could
do. So the cool part
about these especially source control
services, like at Lassie and
owns bit bucket, their ALM
company, they're based out of
Australia, but they've got a
big office here too. And
basically these guys create tools
to, to build software people,
to organize people, organize engineering,
task, organize your code, everything,
start to finish. Now these
guys run their own build
services. I, I think they,
they actually just hook into
AWS. So you're required to
have AWS accounts. They don't
actually run that infrastructure as
well as HipChat, which is
like, Hey, a chat service
where you could chat between
like your teammates. And it's
a lot easier, more task
management. JIRA is their continuous
integration service. And Bitbucket is
their equivalent to get hub.
Cool. Thing about big bucket
is that it's free. Like
it's free. I haven't repose
even. Yeah. So yeah. Talk
to serfs. They'll use, but
that's the only reason I'll
use bit bucket. Otherwise they
have some like, yeah, but
they won't pay the $10.
I will eat it. You
don't understand. I know very
early stage guys that are
there, are there anything like
get hub with like a
student account or something? They
think people, you know, I
need it. Like when people
say I'm a very early
stage startup, that means that
they just registered the domain.
This is the thing about
the Bay. I was complaining
about this online awhile back
where it's like, you registered
the domain and you get
to walk around calling yourself
a founder. Yeah. And that's
every, everybody has their own
sort of powder out here.
You get, you get real
thick on it. Yeah. You,
you registered a domain for
$15. I don't think you
get to call yourself a
founder. Okay. So when you
go, when you go into
Bitbucket, you create a repo.
This is kind of like
visual studio online, right? Yeah.
It's very similar to that.
So VF online is the
same thing and says, Hey,
well, here's a get repository.
Here's a link. You can
create these. You can create
the repository to go outside
of issues and like pull
requests. Do you do a
few things there? I'm actually
not sure if it was
just studio supports pull request,
but it's the same idea.
It's, it's just this little
private area for your team
to build software. So it's
not necessarily the same spirit
of get hub where it's
a social thing. It's more
of, Hey, I have me
and four friends and this
is what we're building. So
at Lausanne, it's the same
thing. So you create like
repository and then afterwards, after
you create that repository, it's
super easy to hook that
up to your Azure website.
So say that you got
like a Python website or
you have a node website,
PHP website, or even.net. It's
really easy. So you would
just basically go into Azure
and you say, well, I
want a new website and
literally ask you, where is
your source? And you have
different options. You could even
deploy it from Dropbox to
which I'm not exactly sure
how that works. Dropbox is
actually clever because the Dropbox
stuff is still using. Get
underneath. What we do is
we pull it out of
Dropbox, stick it in a
local, get repository, and then
use the standard, get deployment
the ways before, and people
get freaked out about the
idea of a Dropbox deployment,
but ultimately for doing, you
know, things with designers or
quick prototyping, it's a really
nice way to do things.
And you've still got get,
which means you still have
the ability to do rollback.
Oh, so that's interesting. So
if I have like a
designer that's, you know, or
kind of assets, or, you
know, just modifying some CSS
or whatever, they can just
drop it in there without
having okay. That makes a
lot of sense. Yeah. I
was wondering if we had
that, so, but anyway, so
you just click on Bitbucket
and you say, okay, well
then it will literally ask
you or what's what repository
and the coolest part I
think is that we have
branch, we go into branch
granularity as well. So we
don't just assume master. So
you could say like I
have my dev branch or
have my Steven Branch, just my
branch of the code for
this product instead of just
a master deployment. And then
you can actually, when you
check into that branch, it'll,
there's these things and get
hub has the two, but
you can register any third
party app. And this case
it's Azure can say, register
a callback, registered an endpoint.
And when the user pushes
to that repository, give me
a call, let me know,
tell me, End point is
like a URL basically you're
yeah. Basically, or URL. And
you're saying, so in this
case, Azures goes to Atlassian
Bitbucket, and they're like, Hey,
Bitbucket called this URL when
I push to the repository
and it just doesn't, and
that tells Azure websites, Hey,
you know, it's like a
vacuum, just like suck all
this code up out of
this repository at the latest
command. And the cool part
is you get this metadata
too. So you got like
the metadata, like, Hey, well,
who's author who deployed it.
Cause it did a post
to do that. Exactly. Posted
you a little envelope of
here's what's going on Some
metadata about that, that command.
And now the coolest, the
thing is, is that now
someone breaks your built now,
you know, who did it.
Yep. And then you get
the, some buddies of mine
have a thing called the
siren of shame. And it
basically, it's a big police
siren that you said in
your, in your, in your
cube farm. And it goes
off when somebody breaks through,
I always thought it would
be cool to have like
gauntlet, like elf shot the
food. And it would just
announce like, you know, Edward
wrote a bill. I noticed
also in your, in, in
that particular example with the
Atlassian, you, again, you again,
exploit the deployment scripts in
this case you run grunt.
Yep. Exactly. So grunt is
actually, so if you're familiar
with node, it's like your
default defacto build infrastructure, like
build task engine. Well, the,
the, the hipsters will say
gulp is the, the spiritual
successor to grunt. Will they
not? Yes. And you know,
yes, they would say that.
But the thing is that
when you have, when you
have like literally any library
you can think of, we'll
probably like have some type
of support for God. Right.
So, and so yeah, you
could be, it could be
indie or it'd be hipster
and be like this. Okay.
So the haters may say
that, but we like, we
like grant. Yeah. I like
it anyways. So, so the
cool part is, is that
great? Yeah. So grants like
you're similar and also you
can compare it to something
like ms. Build it's the
same, same idea. So what
you basically do is what
we're going to do on
the steps for the installation
is, Hey, we're just going
to tell you, remember that
we have node installed because
we have no to of
NPM. And because we have
those two things, we could
do whatever we want as
far as you know, And
we have no installed because
we're Azure. Not because we're
a node app. Yeah. Not
because we know that Because
we're Azure, Azure just has
it by default. So all
I really got to do
is just say, well, NPM
install, grind, and install the
CLI. And then from that
point on any plugins, grunt
has these different plugins, like
this case. I think I
grabbed the Abilify pro plugin
as well as I think
that there's some modification. There's
other things too. Like you
can grab like the mocha
plugin and it'll do it'll
plug in. And I think
actually do it in this
walk through our ad mocha
and you add mocha and
the two. So to run
your, to run your unit
tests and MOCA is just
a unit test framework. And
I know you're about to
tell me about three different
unit test frameworks, but I'm
just learning. I just, I,
every time I mentioned grunt,
someone jumps in and tells
me I shouldn't be using
it. That's the thing that
there's so many cool libraries
out there that there's always,
as soon as I learn
one, there's another one I
should use instead as it
relates to grunt. So the
MOCA is basically your unit
test harness. So think about,
I want to test this
build or not this build,
but this function and it's
actually kind of cute. I
think something in Ruby does
the same thing. It's based
off some Ruby library as
well, but basically it says,
describe there's a described function.
And then there's like an
it function. So you say
like describe hound, what is
the name of the function?
And then within that function,
I have another function called
it. And it's like, should
return a list of recipes
or whatever. So it's actually
kind of cool, Fluent BDD
behavior driven. Yep. Kind of
a thing. And all of
this goes into your deployment
script. So kind of bringing
it all back to the
beginning of the conversation. These
are all things you could
potentially do as part of
a deployment. I can, I
can minify I can compress.
I can build, I can
run my tests. And then
presumably if the test fails,
will there be an error
level that's thrown back? That
would cause that deployment to
fail. Yeah. So what's cool
is that you can take
the, just go into the
batch file and you see
that if something fails, there's
like this already baked and
like, this is the failure
branch. So all you have
to do is check that
error level of, you know,
Hey, try to do this
command and it failed, or
you got an, you got
a nonzero error. So you
just go over, you know,
if the error is not
equal to zero, then go
to that failure block and
it'll just break the build.
Like the build will just
stop. And so interesting about
that. So remember we have
the metadata around that. So
you'll get is a nice
little dialogue and Asher that
with the big acts that
says this build deployment failed,
and then you'll see the
person, the author, and you'll
see the actual commit ID.
So you could look inside
there and I can see,
like, if I want to
break the build, or you
can just click that, that
ID and it'll show you
the depth of why that
build failed. So you get
a lot of good stuff
right. From like, you know,
right from your web browser.
So it's really nice. And
then later on you put
in new Relic and then
you push traffic to the
site except you, now you
went into visual studio and
you used the, the web
recorder. You basically like pounded
on your Azure website to
see if your performance is
up to snuff. Exactly. So
it's really easy. Actually. I
think, I think these guys
in Europe look like they
they're really clever and really
flick. I think they're like
monkey patching or something, your
website to actually get their
plugin to work. Yeah. New
Relic is pretty amazing. They,
like you said, they'll do,
what's called monkey patching on
node, but on a.net, they
actually plug in as a,
as a profiler. So they
end there as a runtime
CLR profile. And so the,
the cool thing is, you
know, right from there, you
just install it and you
it's like magic and you'll
get you just, you can
go into visual studio. And
that's like the last, I
think that's a little one
of my last labs, but
you're going to visual studio
and you'll say, Hey, if
I want to run a
load test and you could
like low testing, like this
was actually something that I
think is really awesome vs
online. So if someone ever
asks me like, Hey, what
would you use it? This
is like, it's the main
reason because all the other,
like at least a month
ago or two, like, I
think I'm about to go
on. I checked like the
solutions or the, the, the
tools out there for low
testing. Isn't as great as
what this offers. So the
cool thing is you can
actually go into visual studio.
You can say, Hey, I
want to record a web
test. And what's a little
bit of a shame is
that it's kind of stuck
under, C-sharp like a C
sharp project we're as, although
there are some things that
are specific for like profiling
on.net. For the most part,
you can get a lot
of value out of it
by just creating a load
performance test right out of
the box. But it's kind
of set up as a
C sharp thing. But if
you kind of throw it
out to the side, you
could say, well, I'm gonna
make a new test. And
you just record with your
clicks and your actions on
a page, you can go
through your whole web app
and just do the same
thing, go through everyone, like
change, you know, enter whatever
you want, do whatever you
want. And then that's all
recorded. And what you do
is you just create a
new load test and BS
and say, Hey, I want
you to run those steps
however many times. And it'll
actually do things like modify
the time difference between your
steps so that it's like
normalized. So pretend that you
have like a thousand people
or 10,000 people, or a
hundred thousand people using your
website, they all use a
website in slightly different ways.
Right? So it kinda like
puts a little bit of
normalized randomness between all those
people or all those instances.
And you can take that
test and run it in
Azure. And why is that
cool? All in via phone
line, but via phone lines
running on Azure, you basically
take, you can take as
many machines as you need
to pound on your website.
Whereas like the low test
is I found that like
simple ones online. It's like,
Oh, just give us your
link. And we'll do like
get 200 requests on it.
You know, you know, a
few thousand times, which isn't
really that helpful. But in
this case, we were doing
a variety of simulated actions
that a user would do.
And you can even simulate
user agents. So you could
say like, Oh, I have
25% Chrome, 25% Safari, 25%.
So you could, you could
do a lot of stuff
that you're, that you wouldn't
normally be able to do.
And this is like secret
sauce in there. Like, I
really love this stuff. So
it's, it's a bit old
bulky that's, that's the only
downside of it. So you
have to like install visual
studio and you have to
think you have to have
this particular skew. So it's
really, it's kind of hidden
behind this like walled garden
a bit, but it's actually
really useful. Very cool. Well,
people can learn all about
you. It's at your blog@stevenedward.com.
I'll be sure to link
folks to your GitHub repo
and these very useful DevOps
labs. Awesome. Thank you so
much, Scott, for having me.
Yeah. Thanks for letting me
know all about how continuous
integration, but I appreciate it.
Awesome. This has been another
episode of Hansel minutes. We'll
see you again next week.